 Home
Tracks
Library
Community
Support
Workspaces
Neil Satterfield11,037
Ok, I got it
Instruction
Exam Instructions
Congratulations! You have made it through all of the projects in the Techdegree, you have created twelve great portfolio projects, and are now ready for the final exam. You’ve come a long way since the start of your development journey and are now ready to show off your skills in an exam setting. Relax, you’ve got this.

Let’s take a look at how the exam is formatted, what to expect during the exam, the expectations we have of you, the student, and what you should expect from your proctor and the exam experience. We’ll also layout some of the technical details about rules during the exam and system requirements. Remember, these policies are in place to insure a quality experience for you and to strengthen the value of the Techdegree. Note that proctor support and exam software are currently only available in English.

System Requirements

To take the exam you will need:

An active internet connection.
A working web camera and microphone.
The Zoom application installed on your computer. Take a look at our Zoom guide for the final exam as well.
Exam Certificate

Make sure the first and last name on your Treehouse account is what you would like to have displayed on your certificate. You can view and edit this in Account Settings.
Exam Delivery

You have two hours total to complete the exam.
The exam consists of a quiz containing multiple choice and fill in the blank types of questions.
After the selection of a multiple choice question, you must hit “Submit Answer” before the answer is finalized. Once a question is answered, you are not allowed to go back and review and/or change previous answers.
FEWD only. After the quiz section, there will be a series of code challenges to complete.
Exam Grading

Exam results will be made available within two (2) business days following the end of the exam. We need time to calculate exam results and review any questions raised by the proctors.
Scores are based on the number of correct answers.
Exam Procedure

At the scheduled time of your exam you will connect with the exam proctor who will authenticate you as a Techdegree student and go over any procedures for your specific Techdegree. During the authentication process you will be asked to produce:

A government-issued ID or accepted alternative (See below for the list of acceptable documents).
You will be required to do a video scan of your testing environment, which will include:
With your webcam, or by lifting and rotating your laptop, you are asked to scan slowly right to left to show surrounding walls and to scan up and down to show the floor and ceiling. The inability to provide the proctor with a complete room scan will result in the exam process stopping and you will need to reschedule the exam.
You are then asked to scan your entire work area. The proctor is looking for security risks, including but not limited to:
Additional monitors. (If there are any, they must be unplugged and turned away from you.)
Additional computers. (If there are any, they must be turned off and monitors must be dark.)
Wall art/posters. (If there are any, these are inspected.)
The work area should be clear of all materials, including the following items, which are not allowed: books, notepads, Post-it notes, typed notes/papers, or writing instruments (such as pens, markers, or pencils). Whiteboards should be wiped clean.
Once the proctor is satisfied with the documentation and testing environment you will be allowed to start the the exam. Failure to provide acceptable identification or a video scan of your testing environment will cause the exam process to be stopped at which point you will need to reschedule the exam for a time in which identification or an acceptable exam environment can be provided.

Once the proctor starts the exam you will have two hours to complete it. During the exam you may ask the proctor questions related to the functionality of the application. If you encounter a technical issue during exam delivery, the exam proctor may help you try to resolve the issue. If necessary, the proctor provides instructions to reference when following up with techdegree@teamtreehouse.com

Upon completion of the exam, or when your time expires, the exam proctor will end the exam and explain your next steps, the waiting period for your exam results, and is available to answer any questions you may have about the exam experience.

Exam Rules

To be granted a Techdegree upon passing the exam, students must observe and agree to the following rules.

During the exam period, video, audio, and screen activity will be recorded for review by Techdegree auditors.
Conversations with other people is not allowed during the exam session. You must be alone in a quiet environment.
During the exam session additional computer monitors, televisions, radios, and headphones may not be used.
No scratch paper or notes are permitted during the exam session.
Unless specified and provided for a specific exam question, you are only allowed to view the exam. If necessary translation tools may be used.
During the Exam

You may have questions come up during the exam. The exam proctor is available to answer questions about:

The exam process,
The exam application itself,
Technical issues which may come up during the exam,
Emergency issues during the exam
The exam proctor will not, however, be able to answer content related exam questions.

Rescheduling, Cancellation, and Exam Retakes

You may reschedule or cancel your exam appointment with 24 hours notice.
Retakes may be scheduled with a 7 day interval between exams.
Whew! Now that we got all of the administrative details out of the way for your final exam, it's time to get one scheduled. Remember to relax. You will do great.

Acceptable ID Documents

Driver’s license.
Passport.
Military ID.
Identification card (national/state/province identity card).
Alien registration card (green card, permanent resident, visa).
Government-issued local language ID - accepted only if issued from the country in which the candidate is testing.
For minors a school issued ID may be accepted. Please contact techdegree@teamtreehouse.com for further information.
If you do not have access to a form of ID issued above, please contact techdegree@teamtreehouse.com to make specific arrangements.
Treehouse for Mobile


   
